15.08.2024
I have finally created something close to a satisfactory method of dealing with modular CAN frame sets.
The solution involves using an "orphaned" .c file to declare the CanIf structure, and drag it into the main node source by using "extern".
This solution might negate the need for a global "Types" header (to be determined)

As a possible future objection, the Rx and Tx CanIf objects are still refferenced as array pointers in the CanIf configuration object.
Optimal form would have the two arrays declared inside the constant CanIf object, but this would impact the homogenuity of the picoOS CanIf logic among the different nodes.
Furthermore, further separation of the data containers into continuous arrays would allow for faster parsing of the memory aligned data, 
assuming that the derefference speed is offset by a relevant number of contiguous read operations.

Further improvements would involve centralizing the CAN database, in order to reduce boiler plate and user error.
First attempt failed miserably, as the structures required double refferencing of the items. Further research required, going with the per-node db for now.

Signal/Frame structure unified (at the cost of about 40 bits per signal. Might be costly, gotta ensure we really need to remember the owner ID for each signal).
As per the datatype unification, it is possible to merge all signals into a single array, as well as all the frames. Further research required.

The thing compiles for now, i'll leave the canif for a bit, and focus on the IPC. Creating coherent communication if trickier than anticipated, 
as no low effort way is in sight for allowing uniform use of all data types through a single function. Only viable option at the moment,
is to wrap signals and regular variables into function-like macros. 

25.08.2024
So, I somehow stabilized the CAN hw (breadboards are a bitch, i should solder whe controller wires directly or smt). 
Current issue seems to be the CAN SM (finally). Apparently the tx buffer is not cleared, regardless if the message was sent; need to check that.
Ok, so the SM issue was some weird shennanigans on the "transmit required" part of the SM. 

06.09.2024
First order of business, some can frame shenanigans.
In order to enable the addition of new nodes to the network without recompiling the whole network, a mechanism for frame adaptation is needed.
From outside, this process would look like this: user hooks up new nodes to network. new nodes broadcast their frames to the network, with connection requests. 
Central node receives the requests and integrates the new node by giving it unique can frame ids, and the ids of the relevant associated nodes.
To implement this mechanism, the frames have to be somehow centralized. The constant definition of this is questionable, as it could lead to memory waste.
Another way is to implement a dbc configuration framework. This framework would have to include a way to generate the signal definitions for each node,
as well as a set of configuration files allowing the node connections to be set up (either live by central node either during target binary genertation).

06.10.2024
Exactly one month later, we are back. To distance a bit from the CANIF structure, imma look a bit on the CAN SM side.
A bit of care is given to the retry mechanism, by separating some of the functionality into helper functions.